docs/source/building.rst, before:

.. _building:

=================================
Building
=================================


**************
Prerequisites
**************

Tupelo is Java code, organized to build using Maven.  Tupelo is a
'multi-module' Maven codebase.  Being Java and using Maven, Tupelo has
two very obvious tool prerequisites:

A 1.7+ version of the Java Development Kit (JDK).  For installation on Ubuntu::

  $ sudo apt-get install openjdk-7-jdk

will install the OpenJDK toolset.  You may prefer the Sun/Oracle
toolset, but that takes more work to install. See Oracle's `website <http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk7-downloads-1880260.html>`_.

Apache Maven 3.0.5 or greater. See install instructions on their `website <http://maven.apache.org/download.cgi>`_.
For quick install on Ubuntu::

  $ sudo apt-get install maven

After installation of both tools, run 'mvn -v' which shows Maven's
version and which JDK it has located.  You are hoping to see something
very close to this::

 $ mvn -v

 Apache Maven 3.0.5
 Maven home: /usr/share/maven
 Java version: 1.7.0_79, vendor: Oracle Corporation
 Java home: /usr/lib/jvm/java-7-openjdk-amd64/jre
 Default locale: en_US, platform encoding: UTF-8
 OS name: "linux", version: "3.19.0-30-generic", arch: "amd64", family: "unix"

*************
Dependencies
*************

Tupelo dependencies (i.e. 3rd party code it builds against) include 

* native-lib-loader (loads JNI C code from classpath. Used by fuse4j, tsk4j artifacts below.

  * Available in DIMS Git repositories and Github

* fuse4j (Java-enabled fuse filesystems).  Used by fuse module.

  * Available in DIMS Git repositories and Github

* tsk4j (Java-enabled Sleuthkit disk forensics software).  Used by cli module.

  * Available in DIMS Git repositories and Github

* rabbitmq-log4j-appender (Allow log4j statements to go to RabbitMQ broker). Used by logging module.

  * Bundled locally

These artifacts (jars,poms) are not yet available on public facing
Maven repositories (i.e. Maven Central). These dependencies will need to be installed into the local maven cache
before you can build Tupelo. The easiest way is to clone them and run `mvn package install` to install them.
The native-lib-loader will need to be built/installed first.

The rabbitmq-log4j-adapter is bundled into a project-local Maven repository at ./repository.  The modules
that depend on this (logging) include this local repository in their pom.

***************
Property Files
***************

Several parts of Tupelo require a `filter.properties` file before they can be built.
This file will contain configuration options that should not be checked into version control,
such as usernames/passwords.

There is a `template-filter.properties` file in the root of the repository which contains the options
and a list of where to put the completed file.

**NOTE:** The build will fail if you do not provide a `filter.properties` file when required. At minimum, it should be blank.


***********************
Building & Installing
***********************

To build::

 $ cd /path/to/tupelo-git-repo
 $ mvn package

will compile and package up all the Java code into what Maven calls
'artifacts', which are just carefully named Java jar files.  You can
alternatively execute::

 $ make package

which uses the local Makefile to invoke Maven. Then::

 $ make install

will take the jars and copy them to /opt/dims/jars, and copy driver
shell scripts from ./bin to /opt/dims/bin.


Native Code
------------

Tupelo has some native code sections which use JNI.
To build the C code, run the following::

 $ mvn compile -Pnative

The native code is in the `model/physical` sub-project.
After the code is built, the resulting .so files will need to be moved
to the appropriate folder under `src/resources`::

 src/resources/edu/uw/apl/tupelo/model/physical/native/Linux/<ARCH>/

Where `<ARCH>` is `x86` or `x86_64`.

**NOTE:** This native code is for Linux only. It is used to get information
about the disk drives, such as serial number. It will require writing a platform-specific
version of the code to support OSX or Windows hosts.

*************
Unit tests
*************

The above compile/package/install process skips all unit tests.  To
run them (and some can take minutes to complete), we use a Maven
profile called 'tester', like this::

 $ mvn test -Ptester

which will run all the unit tests.

Note that you may get exceptions because HTTP Store can't mount MDFS.
Still working on this.

Commit message:

Update the docs about the native code

docs/source/building.rst, after:

.. _building:

=================================
Building
=================================


**************
Prerequisites
**************

Tupelo is Java code, organized to build using Maven.  Tupelo is a
'multi-module' Maven codebase.  Being Java and using Maven, Tupelo has
two very obvious tool prerequisites:

A 1.7+ version of the Java Development Kit (JDK).  For installation on Ubuntu::

  $ sudo apt-get install openjdk-7-jdk

will install the OpenJDK toolset.  You may prefer the Sun/Oracle
toolset, but that takes more work to install. See Oracle's `website <http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk7-downloads-1880260.html>`_.

Apache Maven 3.0.5 or greater. See install instructions on their `website <http://maven.apache.org/download.cgi>`_.
For quick install on Ubuntu::

  $ sudo apt-get install maven

After installation of both tools, run 'mvn -v' which shows Maven's
version and which JDK it has located.  You are hoping to see something
very close to this::

 $ mvn -v

 Apache Maven 3.0.5
 Maven home: /usr/share/maven
 Java version: 1.7.0_79, vendor: Oracle Corporation
 Java home: /usr/lib/jvm/java-7-openjdk-amd64/jre
 Default locale: en_US, platform encoding: UTF-8
 OS name: "linux", version: "3.19.0-30-generic", arch: "amd64", family: "unix"

Also, Tupelo is **platform dependent**. Even though the code is mostly Java, there are portions of native C code.
 See the :ref:`native-code` section for more details.

*************
Dependencies
*************

Tupelo dependencies (i.e. 3rd party code it builds against) include 

* native-lib-loader (loads JNI C code from classpath. Used by fuse4j, tsk4j artifacts below.

  * Available in DIMS Git repositories and Github

* fuse4j (Java-enabled fuse filesystems).  Used by fuse module.

  * Available in DIMS Git repositories and Github

* tsk4j (Java-enabled Sleuthkit disk forensics software).  Used by cli module.

  * Available in DIMS Git repositories and Github

* rabbitmq-log4j-appender (Allow log4j statements to go to RabbitMQ broker). Used by logging module.

  * Bundled locally

These artifacts (jars,poms) are not yet available on public facing
Maven repositories (i.e. Maven Central). These dependencies will need to be installed into the local maven cache
before you can build Tupelo. The easiest way is to clone them and run `mvn package install` to install them.
The native-lib-loader will need to be built/installed first.

The rabbitmq-log4j-adapter is bundled into a project-local Maven repository at ./repository.  The modules
that depend on this (logging) include this local repository in their pom.

***************
Property Files
***************

Several parts of Tupelo require a `filter.properties` file before they can be built.
This file will contain configuration options that should not be checked into version control,
such as usernames/passwords.

There is a `template-filter.properties` file in the root of the repository which contains the options
and a list of where to put the completed file.

**NOTE:** The build will fail if you do not provide a `filter.properties` file when required. At minimum, it should be blank.


***********************
Building & Installing
***********************

To build::

 $ cd /path/to/tupelo-git-repo
 $ mvn package

will compile and package up all the Java code into what Maven calls
'artifacts', which are just carefully named Java jar files.  You can
alternatively execute::

 $ make package

which uses the local Makefile to invoke Maven. Then::

 $ make install

will take the jars and copy them to /opt/dims/jars, and copy driver
shell scripts from ./bin to /opt/dims/bin.

.. _native-code:

Native Code
------------

Tupelo has some native code sections which use JNI.
To build the C code, run the following::

 $ mvn compile -Pnative

The native code is in the `model/physical` sub-project.
After the code is built, the resulting .so files will automatically be copied
to the appropriate folder under `src/resources`::

 src/resources/edu/uw/apl/tupelo/model/physical/native/Linux/<ARCH>/

Where `<ARCH>` is `x86` or `x86_64`.

**NOTE:** This native code is for Linux only. It is used to get information
about the disk drives, such as serial number. It will require writing a platform-specific
version of the code to support OSX or Windows hosts.

*************
Unit tests
*************

The above compile/package/install process skips all unit tests.  To
run them (and some can take minutes to complete), we use a Maven
profile called 'tester', like this::

 $ mvn test -Ptester

which will run all the unit tests.

Note that you may get exceptions because HTTP Store can't mount MDFS.
Still working on this.
